I.
A.
1. When the exhausted girls had been in the tent for a long time, Marcus came into the yard and threw the dolls into the water.
2. The farmer had gone with me into town, and so Quintus did not find us in the fields. So then Quintus rushed forth from his hiding place, but I lay in the grass for a long time. 
3. I was punished in school, because I had broken the teacher's pen.
4. Then Quintus rushed out from the hiding places; but I hid for a long time in the grass.
B.
1. "For a long time, we did not find bears," said the farmer. "Then many burst out of the big cave, and so the sailors will frighten the strong" and my horse, when he saw the she-bears, he ran out of the forest and carried me through the fields quickly."
2. "What did you give to Marcus, my son?" asked the lazy sailor. "I gave a wicked little fox to Marcus," said the son; "but Marcus had given me money."
3. "The moon is a large star," said Claudia. "The moon is in the sky," said Quintus; "but it is not a star."
4. "Marcus, when he had run through the yard into the garden," said Marcella, "he sent us into a little boat with Claudia because he had seen a large wolf in the field." 
II.
A.
1. Avia tua ūvās puerīs dēdit, Quinte. Cūr mihi bācās nōn dēdit? Agricola corbulās complēvit.
2. Simia defēssa in pūpārum lectō latet. Lūpum et ūrsam timet. 
3. Tum ancilla in agrōs nōs dūxit. Ibi ursae vūlpeculam tuam occidērunt, puerī; nam caudam inveniēmus. 
4. "Tu magistrum terrēs, Mārcē; itaque ego hodiē liberōs docēbō." 
B.
1. "Mala mea ex corbulā in lutum cadunt," inquit Iulia. "Tum, cum puerī malī ē ludō vēnissent, māla in columbīs miserīs iecērunt."   
2. "Hodiē cum in silvam sedeam," inquit Quintus ad Iuliam, "ursam vīdī. Itaque celeriter cucurrī ut Mārcum monērem; sed ē spelūncam ērūperat et in cymbam iērat. 
3. Tum inquit Claudia, "Cum nautae in harenā diu sedissent, in agrum vēnērunt et nōs in aream mīsērunt."
4. "Cum simia ad terram cecidisset," inquit Quintus, "is in caveam celeriter cucurrit et diu sedet. Iam vulpeculās vestrās timuerit, puerī."
