Exercise XXVIII

I.

A.
1. Where is the cook? Why did y'all not give him the dishes?
2. When we might hav been in the boat with the girls, we saw the the strong wolf on the sand.
3. Marcus and I had come into the forest, then, when we had sat in the shade for a long time, I went into the garden, he to the shop.
4. The fat cook ran into the kitchen and threw the big father(?) into the evil monkey, because she ate the children's food.

B.
1. Then Marcus asked Quintus "Where is my plate?". "I see it under the table", Quintus replied. 
2."Why is the little fox hiding under the dolls' table, Quintus?" asked Claudia. "When the little fox had come into the yard," answered Quintus, "he saw Julia's beautiful doves and feared 
3. The grandfathers on tired horses, when they had gone out of the fields yesterday", said Marcus, "I gave many apples, tomorrow I will fill my basket with grass."
4. "The cook had bought berries and grapes," says Marcella, "but, while he was sitting in the kitchen, the wicked boys threw the berries and grapes into the water, and they filled the baskets."

II.

A.
1. Cēna agricolārum in tergō equī; paterae in corbulīs sunt.
2. Cum coquus fessus in lectō nautae iacuit, vulpēcula alba in culinam venerit et uvās comēderet.
3. Marcus in āream īit ut lunam pulchram stellāsque vidēret. Is eās nōn vīdit, nam is in lutum cecidit.   
4. Cūr avia tua et ancilla obēsa ad oppidum iērunt, Iūlia?
5. Cūr nauta ab portā oppidī celeriter vēnit?

B.
1. "Puer miser ex silvīs herī vēnit," inquit Iūlia, "ut corbulās bacīs complēret. Nōs māla et ūvās dēdimus."
2. "Quid nauta tibi dedīt, Mārce?" inquit Iūlia. "Cum lupī ē latebrīs ērumperent," inquit Mārcus, "nauta mihi sagittās dēdit, et ursam et lupum sagittīs occīdo."
3. "Cum in umbrā lateam, ut vulpēculam terream," inquit Claudia, "capsa mea humī cadet. Iam eam nōn videō."
4. "Magister coquum pigrum ad tabernam mīsit," inquit Marcella; "et cum is in sellā ibi sedēret, Marcus in culinam cum Quintō cucurrit. Ibi puerī malī cēnam magistrī sūmpsērunt et paternās frēgērunt."
