Nutting, Exercitium XXVI

I.
A.
1. Quintus will sit on the table, so that Julia may sit on the bench.
2. Marcus, when he was in the forest, saw the moon and many stars in the sky.
3. Soon the wolves will be taken out of the caves; but meanwhile, the strong farmers have gone into the forest with arrows.’
4. The sailor had sent his son with the girls to school, that his son might be a good boy.
B.
1. Then Claudia said to Marcus, “I gave my tablet to you. Why didn’t you give the school bag to Marcella?”
2. "The wicked boys threw rocks into the cage yesterday," said Claudia, "but our monkey had run into the tent. There under the bed he hid all day."
3. “Today the farmers, when they had come into the forest quickly, “ said Marcus, “they killed a white bear and wolf.”
4. "What did you see in the forest, Marcus?" asked the girls. "When we had come from the fields into the forest," said Marcus, "Quintus feared the she-bear, but I went to the cave. There I saw the tail of our monkey, girls." 
5. "When Quintus had given the little basket to the farmers," said Julia, "we ran quickly into the garden."

II.
A.
1. In umbrā cum tē sedēbō, puer meus.
2. Mīsistī, Quīntē, ut simiam in gremiō teneret.
3. Cum agricolae in agrīs erant, lupus malus in hortum iit; sed is vulpeculam parvum nōn invēnī.
4. Lupus simiam occīdit, sed vulpecula in herbā latuerat.
5. Itaque filii agricolae mala in corbulās magnās iecērunt.
B.
1. "Mox puellās vidēbis, Claudia," inquit Quintus; "interim eae in cymbā cum mē erunt."
2. Cum puerī saxa in hortō diū latuīssent," inquit Iuliā, "celeriter in in silvā cucurrērunt, ut in speluncā laterent.
3. "Olim," inquit Marcus, "Julia vulpeculam parvam tuam in ludum dūxit, Quintus. Sed filius piger nautae librōs et tabulās puellā et vulpeculā."
4. "Interim ursae equum agricolae occidērunt," inquit puella. "Equum miserum vīdī," inquit nauta validus. "Hodiē in silvā sedēbō, ut ursās terream, nam sagittās habeō. 
5. "Ubi erant/fuerunt, puerī?" inquit Marcella. "Iēruntne ad caveam, ut columbās albās vidēre?" 
